Welcome back all, today I will introduce
you to the basic concept of generic
programming now the term generic is
basically define is just a
characteristic of some sort of a group
or class of things it is not specific so
basically the opposite
of specific here
we will go over generic
functions these
functions have the
same body but can
accept everything
as a parameter as
opposed to the functions which we have
been using previously where you have
specific parameters whose used types
are defined the functions can only
accept parameters of
those types herr we
will basically create
functions that can
pretty much accept anything as a
parameter which is a very useful concept
and generic programming
is basically based
on deduction or type
based parameters based
on the parameter type, compiler will
decide which function to call there are
two types of deduction
you have partial
and complete incomplete
deduction we
know nothing about the parameters so
nothing is known about the parameters
whereas in partial deduction there is
there is some additional information for
example we know that the parameter is in
array, but that's pretty much all we
know about. Anyway
let's go ahead and
take a look at the
generic functions and
type deduction. So that's
really what I wanted to go over with you
in this set of tutorial or a tutorial
depending on how much time will I
require to actually finish this.
So let's
go ahead and create
a void function, let's call it print
and we shall have int urr, ok so nothing new here really and int len so
in place just a short
version of it,
let's go ahead and
prototype it and go
down below and actually create the body of the function
let me just go ahead
and copy this, so as
before nothing new,
nothing strange here
we're just gonna go ahead
and create the body of
the function std, just gonna
go ahead and create a
print out here. Ok so there you go,
and we're gonna need the for
loop because this is gonna
be our beginning you're
gonna have an opening of a
bracket and then we're going to have a
for loop which will print out all the
elements probably except the last one
we're gonna have some sort
of logic embedded and
then at that idea and
we're going to close at
all with another block like this one, so
here so here's what I am
intending to do here and just gonna go
ahead and say int I =  0 and I is
we're not going to get any
curly brackets don't blow as we just
gonna have one single line and this will
ensure that we
basically managed to
print out all the
elements except for
the last one as you can see its length
minus one, variable in minus one with
len will be the size
of the array since
we go up to len -1
which means one lesser
than complete length of the array
we cannot access, we cannot
basically access the
last element and
this happens when an
array is we can't
access the element
which is len -1 so we
can't access the minus
first element so
to say I'm doing a very stupid
explanation of that
let me just go ahead
and show you like
through the code it's
kind of cool to put
it in words as fairly
strange things so to say
let me just go ahead and
write it out and then
I'll explain a while
you're actually looking
at the code I do
believe that it's
going to make way
more sense that way
ok so this is gonna
print onto the closing
bracket outside the
for loop outside of
the if so look we
have opening bracket
opening block print
out all the elements
of the array so it prints out one
element and there is a coma space
coma space coma space and so on and so forth
it goes until it actually
until I becomes equal
or greater than
len-1 and then down
below you have
a len not equal to
0 so if the len
is not equal to 0 if we haven't
initialized an array
whose size is 0 so
if the length of the
array is not equal
to 0 then please create a print out
after the for loop
which will go like this
arr len -1 so it will
basically create the print
out of this element
here, let me just put
it like this, so it will create a print out
of this element here
off the array hopefully
it makes more
sense now with the
if statement of what
I was saying about a moment ago and I
was doing it really clumsy fashion so
this one here will not print out len-1
element of the array but this one down
below, will print out
element with this
index so element would
this index will
not be printed out in the for loop but
it will be printed out here
ok so now that we have
that done this is
the regular function,
let's just run it,
well we haven't actually
called function or initialized or pass
the parameter or anything like that but it
doesn't matter,
just want to verify that the program
actually compiles without any problems
now in the main
we can do the
following, it shouldn't
be that hard, we can have some
sort of an array I don't know int arr
2,3,4,-5,1,1,0,4 you
don't need to type in
the same values as I
have it's really not
that important and down below we're gonna
have a const, int, len, because it
does need to be a const
and look at what
I'm about to do here,
I'm about to type in sizeof arr
divided by size of arr
so 0, yeah, there you
go, 4 so sizeof is an
operator which returns
the size of an object
in bytes, that is
why we divided by the
size of a in int,
and down below we're type in print(arr, len)
we're just passing the
parameters now ok,
no big deal, ops I
seem to have made an
error here, sorry. So
we will initialize the
size of length so it'll
be length of the
array, with the result of these
two here so you have size off in terms
of bytes of the first element of the
array and you have the size of the
entirety of the array so think
about what's gonna
get printed out
onto the screen
Ok it's confusing me, seems to be a problem here
to there's a block here
equal. Ok and let's go
ahead and run it now.
down there you go,
234-51104 you see they
all got printed out
without any sort of
problems and you even
have a new line at
the bottom now let's go ahead and
discuss despite a little bit more go
let's go ahead and type
in cout, I do believe
that by just printing
out of the values
of these of the size in
terms of bytes, will basically just be self
explanatory cout, sizeof arr
sizeof arr 0
Ok that should be it,
maybe I should do this
as well. Ok let's run
this, so it's 32 and 4
what is 32 and 4?
Let's count, 12345678
what is 8 times 4? Well
8 times 4 is 32 why
am I saying 8 times 4? Well, you
have 4 here and 4 is basically
the size of the first element what is
the first element of the array? its number
2, what is number 2?
number 2 is an
integer the size of
an integer in terms
of bytes is 4,so 4 bytes.
So we basically
said ok take the first element
give us the size in terms of
bytes which is 4 and then combined
the bytes of all the elements and then
divided by 4 to get the number of
elements within the array so let's go
over that again.
Integer has the size has
the size of 4 bytes
in your ram, so you
have bytes, megabytes,
gigabytes, etc. Well, integer is only
4 bytes in terms of size, number 2 is
an integer which is the first element of
the array and we have stated okay go
ahead and take the
first element of the
array give us its size
in terms of bytes
that would be 4, and
then give us the
size of all the
elements combined in
terms of bytes, which is 32. Ok now divided
by 4 and give us the amount of
elements give us the number of elements
don't give us the size of the elements
combined give us the number of elements
that the array contains, so
that we would get
the length of the
array hopefully that is clear.
So, 4 is
the size of a single element in terms of
bytes
and once you combine all the sizes in
terms of bytes and divide that by 4
you get the number of elements.
Hopefully
that explanation was
actually useful. So,
this function that we have just created
the function print is a regular not a
generic function which prints out an
array of numbers that is integers,
the problem is that the function only print out
an array of integers and nothing else so
if we had an array
of for example real
numbers that is double,
so this was for
example, not int but we would have
we would have problems,
the function will not print out
these numbers, the solution to this
problem is to write a function that has
the same body but also accept but
also accepts an array of type double so  we could go about
doing that, in fact we
will, let me just type
int here there's a
considerable amount of prep
work before we get
into the before we
get into what we
want to get into in
this particular tutorial in terms of
generic programming because you do need to
do some preps, if we
basically just do this,
void we will create
a function overload here
print and this will be double arr
it's gonna be int len
again, so this will
be an overloaded these
two functions are
considered to be overloaded why?
They
have the same name,
they have the same
declaration but they take different
parameters
Anyway, what we have done here is
overloaded function created an
overloading function so do you know what
is the difference between these two
functions? they have the same name, they
have the same declaration, the same
prototype everything's
the same except
for the arguments
that they take, so if
you have two functions of the same name
and doesn't want it to be void they can
also have a return type but take
different parameters
that means that you
are overloading functions, so how would a program differentiate
how would the machine
differentiate if you
call a function with
print they both have
the same name?
Well it would
differentiate in terms of
the arguments passed
so if you passed the
double array an array of doubles, it will
take this function into consideration, if
you pass an array of
integers, it will
take this function
into consideration. So
let's go ahead and
create the body for
this function and see
how that actually
works in practice.